[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti and charlie state our
headlines today a significant drop in
covid vaccine supplies from the start of
next month
a delay in deliveries from india could
be partly to blame
hundreds of patients may have had do not
resuscitate decisions placed on them
during the pandemic
without knowing the care regulator calls
for urgent action
police disperse a crowd of more than 1
000 people
after they gathered in a park in
liverpool to celebrate st
patrick's day a big mess around the big
day good morning thousands of weddings
are at risk of being cancelled because
of confusion over which venues are
allowed we talked to some of those
affected
good morning it's a hat-trick of premier
league sites in the champions league
quarter-finals
chelsea joined liverpool and manchester
city in the last eight
after a convincing win over the spanish
league leaders atletico madrid and they
were
jumping for joy after the result
keeping beauty sports beautiful when the
coveted restrictions lift why land
owners want more people to pay attention
to the countryside
code good morning today once again it's
going to be
fairly cloudy for most of us there's
some patchy rain coming down the east of
the country
the best of the sunshine in the
southwest and also central and eastern
parts of scotland
but i'll have all the details later in
the programme
[Music]
good morning it's thursday the 18th of
march our top story is that people
under the age of 50 are unlikely to get
their first dose of a covid vaccine
before the end of april because of what
nhs england is calling
a significant reduction in supply it's
understood to have been caused by a
delay in the manufacture of millions of
doses of the oxford astrazeneca vaccine
in india
our health reporter jim reed has more
another step closer to normality
at gps like this one in lincolnshire
thousands have been given their vaccines
this week
that's it in total more than 25 million
have now been jabbed
for the next four nights there should be
plenty of doses to go round
after that though there is more doubt a
letter
sent by the nhs to local health services
warned of a significant reduction in
supply next month
and said no further appointments for
first doses
should be uploaded to booking systems in
april
vaccine supply is always lumpy and we
regularly send out
technical letters to the nhs to explain
the
ups and downs of the supply over the
future weeks
it's thought the late delivery of
batches of the astrazeneca vaccine
manufactured at a plant in india are to
blame for the shortfall
nobody who has an appointment should
lose their slot but this may delay the
rollout to the next age group down
those in their 40s by perhaps as much as
a month
it comes as the european commission
suggested it could block exports of the
fisa vaccine to the uk
unless other jabs are sent back across
the channel in return
meanwhile 13 eu states have still
suspended the use of the astrazeneca
shot
over concerns about rare blood clots an
investigation into that by the eu
medicines agency
is due to report back this afternoon
keeping up the pace of vaccine supply is
crucial
if the government is going to stick to
its roadmap out of lockdown
the recent fall in infections means that
almost 4 million vulnerable
people in england have now been told
they no longer need to shield
from next month the reason we've done
that
is because the rates of community
infection have now dropped
a long way and they've been sustained
and we recognise that actually advising
people to shield for
more than about 12 weeks can be really
quite damaging for their mental health
so i think good news for all of them
as for the vaccine programme the
government said supply of the jabs will
vary
over time but it remains on track to
offer a first dose to all
over 50s in england by mid-april and all
adults by the end of july
jim reid bbc news
the care regulator for england has said
that hundreds of people may have been
subjected to
do not resuscitate decisions during the
early part of the pandemic without them
or their families knowing a report by
the care quality commission found
evidence that dnr decisions which
restrict potentially life-saving
treatment
were applied across particular groups
including people with learning
difficulties
our social affairs correspondent michael
buchanan has this report
simon had an absolute zest for life
loved being with her family you know
always smiling always laughing
phone has got the moves sonja dillion
suffered from schizophrenia and had
learning disabilities
but it was only after she died in
hospital from a heart attack last april
that her family said they discovered her
medical notes contained
a do not resuscitate decision limiting
the treatment that sonja could receive
we'd had no consultation at no point
at no point were we told that that had
taken place
we would have disputed that and we would
have said we don't want that in place
the hospital insists the family
consented to the decision
including discussing it with sonia's 85
year old mother
i can't describe the love that my mum
has
for simon
my mum's been waiting to hear your voice
there is no
way that she would agree
to that being put in place absolutely no
way
at all south end university hospital
were responsible for treating sonja
delian
they say the do not resuscitate decision
was appropriate
and based on assessments by clinicians
today's report makes no reference to
sonia's case
but does find that over 500 people
mainly elderly or disabled
and do not resuscitate decisions made
for them without their consent
of that of their relatives the true
scale of the problem
could be much greater however any
decision that's put in in a blanket
fashion
or in a way that doesn't take into
consideration a person's individual
needs is never acceptable
one of the things we've found through
the review is that
trying to quantify this problem has been
very difficult
because of the lack of oversight and
the lack of record keeping and data
the cqc said the pressure of the
pandemic and rapidly developing guidance
were to blame for their problems
they want a group of ministers to come
together to fully investigate what
happened
nhs england say that throughout the
pandemic they'd repeatedly told those
making dnr decisions
that that blanket use was unacceptable
sonja delian's family want more
safeguards put in place
to protect those who can't help
themselves today's report suggests many
other families would also benefit from
such measures
michael buchanan bbc news
an inquest into the death of sarah
everard will be open today
a 33 year old's body was found in kent a
week after she went missing while
walking home in south london
wayne cousins who was a serving police
officer with the metropolitan police is
charged with kidnap
and murder a man has been charged with
murder
after eight people were killed in
shootings at three massage parlors in
the
u.s state of georgia six of the victims
were women of asian heritage
robert aaron long who's 21 has been
charged with eight counts of murder
the shootings took place in atlanta
a crowd of more than a thousand people
were dispersed by police yesterday after
they gathered in a park in liverpool to
celebrate saint patrick's day
merseyside police made one arrest and
issued more than 40
fixed penalty notices to people who
refused to leave the area
abby jones has more
taken late yesterday afternoon by
passersby videos show
huge crowds at sefton park during
lockdown police say over a thousand
people were at the popular south
liverpool beauty spot some apparently to
celebrate st
patrick's day merseyside police
condemned the gathering as reckless
behavior
many of those there are believed to be
students people
congregated together and drinking
and basically just having st patrick's
day celebrations that were there
olivia lever is a student herself and
filmed the gathering
she's worried it will give all students
a bad name as much as i have sympathy
for students i think it's so close
you know you don't need to go and
recreate woodstock on the park you can
you can just celebrate with a few
friends
forty police officers broke up the
crowds including the national police air
service
merseyside police have issued a
dispersal order for sefton park in the
area around it
criticizing those who gathered chief
inspector carl baldwin said
such blatant disregard of the kovid 19
regulations will not be tolerated by
merseyside police
we all need to pull together and follow
the rules as such reckless behavior now
will put any future easing of the
lockdown rules in jeopardy
extra police officers were on patrol
around sefton park overnight
abby jones bbc news
the rugby league legend rob burrow has
added yet
another uh life to his connection after
being awarded an honorary doctorate by
leeds
beckett university former leeds rhino
was diagnosed with motor neurone disease
just over two years ago and he's worked
tirelessly to raise awareness and funds
to support others living with the
condition
he has described receiving the doctorate
as a huge
honor now you may remember a couple of
weeks ago we saw dolly parson
launch into song while she was receiving
her covid chap
vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine
i'm begging of you please don't hesitate
vaccine vaccine well that was an
adaptation of her classic
song jolene of course and now one of our
homegrown stars has followed dolly's
lead
vaccine i am having my back seat
to protect against kobe make sure you
have yours
too so there you go it's the west end's
elaine page so she's receiving her
second
jab taking the opportunity to uh
sing a vaccine-themed version of memory
of course from cats
i don't know which tune i'm going to
have in my head more
jolene just pips it i think
what about you i think it's quite
achievable to sing whilst being
vaccinated to be honest with you i think
that's quite achievement in itself
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news